with so much misinformation in the news
today how can you actually tell if the
US is in trouble I'm about to show you
right now you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you I'm going to
take a look at what's going on with cars
we'll start there and then I'm going to
show you what's happening with the debt
and how these circumstances have changed
rapidly in a short period of time let's
begin with this you can see Dodge
Chrysler and RAM have a absurdly high
inventory levels right now this is
showing us that they Supply across every
brand and looking at that you will see
that there is clearly an issue on the
right hand side Ram Chrysler Dodge have
a lot specifically Dodge this is
interesting because you remember there
was that whole you know people going on
strike and they were on strike for a
while what would these numbers have
looked like if there wasn't a strike did
it happen to be at that same moment when
they knew we were leading up into this
it really begs the question of what's
going on here the demand simply isn't
there we are not seeing the consumers
come to the table and that's not just
for cars but that is an interesting
indicator isn't it let me show you
something else when we connect that in
with the debt people take on debt of
course to Finance their vehicles and you
see the used car national average price
7.32% at this time you could look it for
new cars you could look at it for one
company or another the general direction
is the same just like your mortgages and
credit cards and everything else the
price of these vehicles hasn't
necessarily come down I mean in some
cases what I have seen the statistics
have shown that these car dealerships
are willing to actually take a loss I'm
I'm not sure how they getting away with
it but they don't want to keep that
inventory around knowing that it's not
going to be viable a year down the road
they have to move that inventory and so
they are in some cases taking a loss so
what we can see here that you increase
the amount that it costs to borrow on
that veh for that vehicle and of course
you will have an impact on people's
ability to borrow I I think it's pretty
obvious right Black Friday Shoppers set
on online spending record yes people did
buy a lot of stuff Cyber Monday Black
Friday I know this from my own business
I can see that I can see where that is
what I talked about in a previous video
was that my statistics inside Statistics
from my business basically indicates
when people come in when they go in
broadly in the niche when they start
adding things to cart and when they
actually purchase so I could see
everything there and from my area
basically what it was very clear about
was that people shopped early they put a
lot of stuff in their cart if they saw
the deal available they would take that
knowing they could just get a return if
that's the case but then that those
shopping days were very strong but
around those other days particularly
after not so strong why because they
know the are over now and they can wait
it out they've bought not necessarily
the the flat screen TVs and all that
they bought the Necessities things they
were probably going to buy anyway they
simply just said I'm going to wait it
off in fact we had somebody in the
comment section talking about how they
deliver for Walmart and he said he did
not deliver any any of the typical stuff
the big screen TVs and so on it was food
and clothing what does that say about
the US consumer we are starting to
connect these pieces together and we'll
go in another level here we are American
borrowers are getting closer to maxing
out credit card utilization and
delinquency rates are on the rise I've
said this before but you don't have to
dig my word for it this is Right In The
Wall Street Journal so you can pull that
data through and by the way I want to
make it clear yes the numbers are small
don't think that this is like 50% of
people s
but it's coming up performance of credit
cards average across five major lenders
you can look at the net charge off rate
and 30-day plus delinquency rate both of
them are up beyond that by the way it's
from the FED pushing all this data this
is the credit card utilization rate and
so these people who are 30 days plus
delinquent doesn't matter by the way if
they're making 100 Grand or not right
people are during this time frame using
their credit cards more and why is that
well because all of their expenses are
adding up and obviously if you're making
100 Grand a year you're maybe less
likely to be using that credit card
versus somebody making less than 25
Grand a year but everybody's doing it it
seems it doesn't matter which group
you're in very interesting article if
you want it check it out Link in the
description but Bloomberg basically did
this assessment of all the prices of all
these different things and so they have
a lot of graphics and and stuff so it's
a pretty cool article but you can see
here for yourself car insurance up 33%
natural gas up 29% indoor plants
electricity curtains used cars groceries
it doesn't
matter everything seems to be up
everything your utilities are up your
your cars you I mean everything over
these last few years just how bad is the
US cost of living squeeze we did the
math and so they can break that down in
here if you want to check it out look
since 2020 that's not an espresso but
certainly coffee is up 23% you could see
the receipt that they're just showing
you here just a fictional receipt
comparing 2020 to 2023 and yeah I know
I'm feeling it I've been looking around
trying to compare all the different
stores where can I get my bananas the
cheapest because that's where I'm headed
okay
that's what I need to know where you buy
the bulk of your food you've got to make
the right decisions and that goes for
everybody okay it's not just people
making you know 25,000 or less this is
people in the six figure range and even
Beyond because it depends you know on
cash flows but what I would say is that
right now the consumer is concerned and
this is just one thing I wanted to point
out here the viral $16 McDonald's meal
that may explain voter anger at Biden
now they're just giving this one example
yeah 16 bucks for this particular burger
and that shows us how far we've come the
options of you know where they used to
have five bucks and you could buy a
whole meal at one of these fast food
places that seems like it's largely over
some places do have a few options and
things like that but you know it's not
what it was just a few years ago so
something has happened but what is it
okay you getting the point the consumer
they're being squeezed what's going on
here don't don't blame in what what's
happening now don't even go back a few
years look at what they've been doing
for well over a decade they devalued
your currency and my goodness have we
seen a shocking amount of devaluation
over this period nothing is worth more
if I buy this shirt is it a different
shirt than it was 10 years ago no
if I buy this little remote these pair
of
glasses what has happened to it is it
that the corporation neural land that
suddenly made these much more expensive
well certainly they're going to take
advantage but it's the currency because
you could see it's every industry it's
goods and services and they're all going
up but the biggest problem about it all
is not that necessarily the prices of
those things have gone up it's that are
salaries our income hasn't gone anywhere
near that so our real income has
declined and that puts a pressure on
everyone and so we start to boil and we
start to get that civil unrest that
tends to happen during these periods
best bu Flags weakening consumer demand
heading into the holiday shopping
shopping season and of course this is
just one indication Walmart has said a
few words about this people are being
quote unquote choiceful that's what the
CEO
said um look at this just talking about
credit cards even a modest $11,000
balance from last year's holiday gifts
perhaps would keep someone in debt for
40 months and cost them $390 in interest
if they only make the minimum payments
at the current average rate of 20.7 2%
so it depends on that that rate what if
they're paying 25 what if they're paying
30 many people are and so we see that um
looking at this of course it's just
talking about the fact that last year
people are carrying debt from last year
into this year's holiday season so it
just shows us that we've got to be
smarter there's no question and we've
got to say when when it comes time to it
look if you just can't pay for those
gifts do something else do something
that doesn't cost money for people not
everything has to cost money and
certainly um doing something nice for
somebody is what they'll appreciate it's
not necessarily just the gift okay just
keep that in mind looking at this
retirees face steep hikes in
prescription premiums in 2024 all
medical costs have gone up they will go
up next year be prepared for that and
watch how they blame one group or
another no no no it's our currency that
we must understand must be watching US
Banks file to shut file to shut 64
branches in a single week and that's
just one example but what I wanted to
explain to people was you're going to
get less and you're going to pay more
that's all I'm showing you here you're
going to get less and you're going to
pay more this is the world that we live
in today you should not be surprised
because during these times of e excess
we
encounter what is inevitable and a lot
of people cheered and celebrated what
happened during 2020 they said this was
Fant fantastic this was great let's
throw money out there let's let's save
the banks but that's not what it's all
about so anyway I think it's important
for everybody to learn um what they can
you got to get your money in order your
financial s situation in order it
doesn't matter if you got $5 in the bank
or 5 million you've got to do so I
hooked up with money pickle because they
had everything going for it including
the fact that they offer you a 45 minute
free session um and it's not a sales
pitch they have to give you a free
session and that's why I felt confident
everyone so far has been given me
positive feedback on that so if you want
to check it out you go to my website
link in the description click on that
link it brings you to this page you
simply click on the date which is
available to you and that's it okay so
simple totally easy doesn't cost you a
dime let me know how it goes okay Link
in the description and now the comment
of the day we came here for the truth
everything is out of whack quote yes I
always say that and it certainly Rings
Rings true today doesn't it but we got
to take initiative we got to take action
and we got to do the best that we can
each and every day did you appreciate
this information hit that thumbs up I'm
just trying to bring you the real truth
I know sometimes it could be hard but I
want to bring you everything that I can
and I know that if you've been here
especially to the end you can handle the
truth all right I'll see you tomorrow
don't forget to come back tomorrow and
uh I will bring you the best information
suggestions are welcome let me know in
the comments below take care